==============
IETF 105, Montreal, Van Horne Room, Thursday 2019-07-25, 08:30 AM
David Schinazi and Mirja Kuehlewind chairing
45 people in attendance
Tommy Pauly note taking
==============

Mirja Kuehlewind: Use cases and requirements
https://github.com/DavidSchinazi/masque-materials/blob/master/slides/2019-07/kuhlewind-masque-ietf-105.pdf

David Schinazi: MASQUE overview; split document to have main approach and
authentication separately
https://github.com/DavidSchinazi/masque-materials/blob/master/slides/2019-07/dschinazi-masque-ietf-105.pdf

Question: Do people want to implement, etc?

Nick Sullivan: Lots of interesting stuff around proxying and VPNs. We have a
DNS over TOR service that could use this. We use a lot of proxies over TCP and
forward on the original IP. This is a use case for that. Regarding the TLS
layer and QUIC HTTP layer—token binding uses exporters, but we also have
secondary certs in HTTP. A bit nicer abstraction that's harder to get wrong.
Look at exported authenticators draft.

David: The reason I'm not using those now is that these require H3 servers
including a signal showing that they support these frames. Once everyone does
it, then it won't be a flag to identify the use of masque. But agree though.

Nick: Are you using the exporter to derive the key?

David: Used as a nonce, not a key.

Nick: Could make sense in psk code, etc.

Patrick McManus: Happy to work on HTTP compatibility issues. The settings frame
is sometimes true, sometimes not true.

Ben Schwartz: Happy we're talking about this. Glad we separated out auth
mechanism. I want it to be easy for users to configure one of these things. If
they need to generate a key pair locally, and transfer the key to an auth
service to register, it's too many steps for many applications. Should be
compatible to be not a regression for usability. The current state is that we
use high entropy URLs. We may want to standardize the URL format to make this
easier to streamline.

David: For the VPN scenario, ideal use case is open-source clients and servers;
easy within a given implementation.

Ben: TOR was mentioned a few times. Note that it's a TCP proxy with fewer nested
transport issues. So that may be more performant than this.

David: With QUIC datagram, we can avoid the nested transport issues.

Ben: Also, there's a thought that BBR type congestion controls will work better
on these deployments.

Gorry Fairhurst: We have to be careful about what congestion control over the
top. BBRv1 alone would be pretty bad. Maybe BBRv2 could be the best. How does
the outer part work? Can it add services, or is it always just a dumb tunnel?

Mirja: I don't think that's out of scope at all. I think it's interesting to
have datagram on the outer tunnel; but also could have outer quic on multiple
links, and only have those do CC, and deactivate CC on the inner link as long as
there is always an outer QUIC.

Gorry: It can be super cool to do recovery without knowing what you're
recovering on the tunnel. 

David: To the point of scope, that's what we're figuring out in this meeting.
There are cases in which we don't want to give the proxy too much information,
but when we do trust it, we can certainly do deeper coordination.

Mirja: Also, since CC and flow control are separated nicely in QUIC, we have a
good opportunity.

Ben: On a single flow between client and proxy, each packet can either be a QUIC
DATAGRAM frame, or else a stream, and let the client select how much reliability
help they get from the outer link.

Mirja: Yes, you make a choice depending on the traffic.

David: If people are interested in doing interop, please let us know.

Marcus Ihlar: We're already working on some of this, and may be able to interop
by Singapore. More looking at local recovery, but definitely interested.

Emile Stephan: Will it be at the same table as QUIC at a hackathon?

David: Don't know yet! Haven't thought that far ahead.

Marten Seeman: I have another use case that's not tunneling. We have a problem
of traffic being filtered by firewalls. Looking like H3 traffic will help by
using connect method.

Emile: A proxy to translate between QUIC and h1?

Nicolas Kuhn: We are trying to not lose packets between the satellite terminal
and the end terminal. Will present in PANRG too. Interaction with end to end CC
is more than a research issue here.

Ben: What are your thoughts on MTU.

David: MTU is great ;) The document has a short paragraph on MTU discovery, it's
a reasonable concern.

Gorry: Was asking about how many QUIC implementation have done Path MTU... if we
get it right even simply in QUIC, it could be really useful here. Don't want to
do Path MTU within path MTU.

Tommy: What are the dependencies?

David: Hard dependencies are: QUIC/H3, QUIC Datagrams, Authenticated masque can
depend on exported authenticators. Enhancements: PMTUD

Tracking a list of these would be useful

Lucas Pardue: I agree with this list of dependencies. Figuring out a
required/desirable list. For the required ones, do we have a feeling of how much
churn will turn people away? How locked down is datagram?

David: As someone who just changed their quic implementation, I totally get it.
QUIC moves a lot, but the interaction between QUIC and masque will probably be a
pretty thin layer, and won't change with the same cadence. If its over HTTP
semantics, it's not changing with H3. May also have connection ID requirements.

Main change in datagram was to remove flow ID, and will be putting the flows at
an app layer. That makes datagram so simple that it likely won't change much.

Gorry: Generic question: we have inner loops, outer loops... how do we feed back
issues across the entire path? Add that to the list of things to look at.

Ben: How do you see the relationship with web transport and H2 fallback?

David: That's about getting better APIs for the web. One consideration was
building masque on top of web transport. I've thought about that, and I
currently see it not using the javascript layer; they may not build on top of
one another.

Ben: I disagree with the javascript comment.

David: My worry about running an entire browser in the browser is that the inner
web browser wants to end-to-end encryption, and trust validation; from
javascript, we don't have a good way to access the root cert store.

Ben: Yes, the context you're running in would be trusted for this purpose.

Martin Thomson: I don't see an issue if you know what you're doing there.
